Caltrans presentation:
ineterchange types nad other gepmretric topics 
standards and guidance
	AASHTO policy on design standard interstate system
	highway design manual
	county of riverside plans for local roads
design is based on 20 years out from the completion of the project
	roundabout design period is in index 405.10
we got already got the design speed of the I-10 
	since the I-10 is an existing facility, we look at posted speed
HDM 200 geoemtric design and structure standards
	lane width shoulder width bike lane cross slope 
	shoulder widths in table 302.1
HDM 400 intersection at grade
	intersection type, angle of intersection, design vehicles, turning movements
STAA design vehicle is used for Caltrans. This is a large vehicle that covers the majority of emergency needs.
	https://dot.ca.gov/programs/traffic-operations/legal-truck-access/quick-guide
	deciding to use single or double trailer template is up to the type of traffic in the area.
HDM 500 interchanges
	Intention of a freeway
	high standard roadway
	high design speed
	SAFE
	minimal friction and potholes
	..
The definition of an interchange is a grade seperated roadway. caltrans has an agreement with county or city for which areas have an interchange.
interchange spacing
FHWA must be contacted to install an extra interchange as there's not enough spacing for outside of urban areas.
Typical interchanges
	Type 1 Compact Diamond
	Type 2 Spread Diamond
	Type 3 Split Diamond
Typical Service interchanges parallel street system
	Type 4
	Type 5
	Type 6 (popular in LA but not ideal)
Typical cloverleaf 
	Type 7
	Type 8
	Type 9 
	Type 10 (full cloverleaf)
Single point interchange
	Type 11
	Type 12
	Type 13 (SPUI)
Diverging diamond interchange 

Intersection Control Evaluation 
	The highway design manual is the best practices manual
	we are allowed to ask for exceptions 
	you need caltrans and FHWA approval for exceptions 
		FHWA will ask for what you can do to the adjacent interchanges
	try to think up interchanges that don't exist in the manual
	ICE is a decision making process for selecting control measures at intersections for ped and non-motor access.
Intersection Safety and Operational Analysis Process (ISOAP)
	Successor to the ICE procedures
	new or major modifications to intersections 
	Does not apply:
		mod to signing and striping without widening
		upgrading signal heads and poles
		changing signal timing, phasing, software
		restrictions to existing intersections
		installation of warning devices
	Stage #1 screening / assessment
	A. Viable intersection alternatives
		based on available information
		meets purpose and need
		assess need for pedestrian and bicycle access
		identify fatal flaws
	B. Footprint
		compare to existing
		number of lanes
		configuration
		right of way
	C. Safety Assessment
		compare to existing condition
		conflict points
		complexity
		speed reduction measures
		visibility enchancements
		HSM analysis (compare to existing)
	Stage #2 Detailed Analysis
	A. Deisgn
		conceptual layouts
		sight distance
		minimize conflict points / improve safety
		vehicle accommodation
		pedestrian / bicycleists
		cost estimate

See today's presentation slides for more extensive details on the ISOAP and stage 2.
We need to fill out form 1 and form 2. The guidelines are also somewhere here.

---

Best Practices for OpenRoads	
	Microstation files don't contain Civil Elements like alignments and labels. For the purposes of design, we need to convert these Microstation files to OpenRoads files. For every design file, we need to use the "Seed2D - Imperial Design.dgn"[1] file in the Caltrans WorkSpace and Workset. 

	[1] A Seed file is a completely blank design file with preset standards and styles.
	
	Copy the 2D seed file from inside the Caltrans WorkSpace folder and rename the copy to the file you want created. This can also be done from the OpenRoads Homepage.

	Ex. 2d Seed File -> ha_ramp_1_v0.1.0

	After opening the newly created and renamed file, you must "civilize" the file. Please see the picture below on where this icon is located.
	
	todo!()

	Reference all the required files through the "Attach Tools" feature. 

List 1:
	Horizontal Alignment
	Profile
	Edge of Pavement
	Right of Way
	Existing Ground 
	Striping
	
List 2: 
	Corridor		

List 3:
	Superelevation
	Decorations 😊
	
